# Tutorials

On this page you find an overview of Ferrite tutorials. The tutorials explain and show how
Ferrite can be used to solve a wide range of problems. See also the [Code
gallery](../gallery/index.md) for more examples.

The tutorials all follow roughly the same structure:
 - **Introduction** introduces the problem to be solved and discusses the learning outcomes
   of the tutorial.
 - **Commented program** is the code for solving the problem with explanations and comments.
 - **Plain program** is the raw source code of the program.

When studying the tutorials it is a good idea to obtain a local copy of the code and run it
on your own machine as you read along. Some of the tutorials also include suggestions for
tweaks to the program that you can try out on your own.

### Tutorial index

The tutorials are listed in roughly increasing order of complexity. However, since they
focus on different aspects, and solve different problems, it is suggested to have a look at
the brief descriptions below to get an idea about what you will learn from each tutorial.

If you are new to Ferrite then Tutorial 1 - Tutorial 6 is the best place to start. These
tutorials introduces and teaches most of the basic finite element techniques (e.g. linear
and non-linear problems, scalar- and vector-valued problems, Dirichlet and Neumann boundary
conditions, mixed finite elements, time integration, direct and iterative linear solvers,
etc). In particular the very first tutorial is essential in order to be able to follow any
of the other tutorials. The remaining tutorials discuss more advanced topics.

---

##### [Tutorial 1: Heat equation](heat_equation.md)

This tutorial guides you through the process of solving the linear stationary heat equation
(i.e. Poisson's equation) on a unit square with homogeneous Dirichlet boundary conditions.
This tutorial introduces and teaches many important parts of Ferrite: problem setup, degree
of freedom management, assembly procedure, boundary conditions, solving the linear system,
visualization of the result). *Understanding this tutorial is essential to follow more
complex tutorials.*

**Keywords**: scalar-valued solution, Dirichlet boundary conditions.

---

##### [Tutorial 2: Linear elasticity](linear_elasticity.md)

TBW.

**Keywords**: vector-valued solution, Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions.

---

##### [Tutorial 3: Incompressible elasticity](incompressible_elasticity.md)

This tutorial focuses on a mixed formulation of linear elasticity, with (vector)
displacement and (scalar) pressure as the two unknowns, suitable for incompressibility.
Thus, this tutorial guides you through the process of solving a problem with two unknowns
from two coupled weak forms. The problem that is studied is Cook's membrane in the
incompressible limit.

**Keywords**: mixed finite elements, Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions.

---

#### [Tutorial 4: Hyperelasticity](hyperelasticity.md)

In this tutorial you will learn how to solve a non-linear finite element problem. In
particular, a hyperelastic material model, in a finite strain setting, is used to solve the
rotation of a cube. Automatic differentiatio (AD) is used for the consitutive relations.
Newton's method is used for the non-linear iteration, and a conjugate gradient (CG) solver
is used for the linear solution of the increment.

**Keywords**: non-linear finite element, finite strain, automatic differentiation (AD),
Newton's method, conjugate gradient (CG).

---

#### [Tutorial 5: von Mises Plasticity](plasticity.md)

This tutorial revisits the cantilever beam problem from [Tutorial 2: Linear
elasticity](linear_elasticity.md), but instead of linear elasticity a plasticity model is
used for the constitutive relation. You will learn how to solve a problem which require the
solution of a local material problem, and the storage of material state, in each quadrature
point. Newton's method is used both locally in the material routine, and globally on the
finite element level.

**Keywords**: non-linear finite element, plasticity, material modeling, state variables,
Newtonâ€™s method.

---

#### [Tutorial 6: Transient heat equation](@ref tutorial-transient-heat-equation)

In this tutorial the transient heat equation is solved on the unit square. The problem to be
solved is thus similar to the one solved in the first tutorial, [Heat
equation](heat_equation.md), but with time-varying boundary conditions. In particular you
will learn how to solve a time dependent problem with an implicit Euler scheme for the time
integration.

**Keywords**: time dependent finite elements, implicit Euler time integration.

---

#### [Tutorial 7: Computational homogenization](computational_homogenization.md)

This tutorial guides you through computational homogenization of an representative volume
element (RVE) consisting of a soft matrix material with stiff inclusions. The computational
mesh is read from an external mesh file generated with Gmsh. Dirichlet and periodic boundary
conditions are used.

**Keywords**: Gmsh mesh reading, Dirichlet and periodic boundary conditions

---

#### [Tutorial 8: Stokes flow](stokes-flow.md)

In this tutorial Stokes flow with (vector) velocity and (scalar) pressure is solved on on a
quarter circle. Rotationally periodic boundary conditions is used for the inlet/outlet
coupling. To obtain a unique solution, a mean value constraint is applied on the pressure
using an affine constraint. The computational mesh is generated directly using the Gmsh API.

**Keywords**: periodic boundary conditions, mean value constraint, mesh generation with
Gmsh.

---

#### [Tutorial 9: Incompressible Navier-Stokes equations](ns_vs_diffeq.md)

In this tutorial the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations are solved. The domain is
discretized in space with Ferrite as usual, and then forumalated in a way to be compatible
with the [OrdinaryDiffEq.jl](https://docs.sciml.ai/OrdinaryDiffEq/) package, which is used
for the time-integration.

**Keywords**: non-linear time dependent problem

---

#### [Tutorial 10: Linear shell](@ref tutorial-linear-shell)

In this tutorial a linear shell element formulation is set up as a two-dimensional domain
embedded in three-dimensional space. This will teach, and perhaps inspire, you on how
Ferrite can be used for non-standard things and how to add "hacks" that build on top of
Ferrite.

**Keywords**: embedding, automatic differentiation
