```@meta
DocTestSetup = :(using Ferrite)
```

# Ferrite.jl

Welcome to the documentation for Ferrite.jl! Ferrite is a finite element toolbox that
provides functionalities to implement finite element analysis in
[Julia](https://github.com/JuliaLang/julia). The aim is to be i) general, ii) performant,
and iii) to keep mathematical abstractions.

!!! note
    Please help improve this documentation -- if something confuses you, chances are you're
    not alone. It's easy to do as you read along: just click on the "Edit on GitHub" link at
    the top of each page, and then [edit the files directly in your browser]
    (https://help.github.com/articles/editing-files-in-another-user-s-repository/). Your
    changes will be vetted by developers before becoming permanent, so don't worry about
    whether you might say something wrong. See also [Contributing to Ferrite](@ref) for more
    details.

## How the documentation is organized

This high level view of the documentation structure will help you find what you are looking
for. The document is organized as follows[^1]:

 - [**Tutorials**](tutorials/) are thoroughly documented examples which guides you through
   the process of solving partial differential equations using Ferrite.
 - [**Topic guides**](topics/) contains more in-depth explanations and discussions about
   finite element programming concepts and ideas, and specifically how these are realized in
   Ferrite.
 - [**Reference**](reference/) contains the technical API reference of functions and methods
   (e.g. the documentation strings).
 - [**How-to guides**](howto/) will guide you through the steps involved in addressing
   common tasks and use-cases. These usually build on top of the tutorials and thus assume
   basic knowledge of how Ferrite works.

[^1]: The organization of the document follows the [Di√°taxis Framework](https://diataxis.fr).

In addition there is a [**Code gallery**](gallery/), with user contributed example programs,
and the [**Developer documentation**](devdocs/), for documentation of Ferrite internal code.

## Getting started

As a new user of Ferrite it is suggested to start working with the tutorials before using
Ferrite to tackle the specific equation you ultimately want to solve. The tutorials start
with explaining the basic concepts and then increase in complexity. Understanding the first
tutorial program, [solving the heat equation](@ref Heat-Equation), is essential in order to
understand how Ferrite works. Already this rather simple program discusses many of the
important concepts. See the [tutorials overview](@ref Tutorials) for suggestion on how to
progress to more advanced usage.

### Getting help

If you have questions about Ferrite it is suggested to use the `#ferrite-fem` channel on the
[Julia Slack](https://julialang.org/slack/), or the `#Ferrite.jl` stream on
[Zulip](https://julialang.zulipchat.com/). Alternatively you can use the [discussion
forum](https://github.com/Ferrite-FEM/Ferrite.jl/discussions) on the GitHub repository.

### Installation

To use Ferrite you first need to install Julia, see <https://julialang.org/> for details.
Installing Ferrite can then be done from the Pkg REPL; press `]` at the `julia>` promp to
enter `pkg>` mode:

```
pkg> add Ferrite
```

This will install Ferrite and all necessary dependencies. Press backspace to get back to the
`julia>` prompt. (See the [documentation for Pkg](https://pkgdocs.julialang.org/), Julia's
package manager, for more help regarding package installation and project management.)

Finally, to load Ferrite, use

```julia
using Ferrite
```

You are now all set to start using Ferrite!


## Contributing to Ferrite

Ferrite is still under active development. If you find a bug, or have ideas for
improvements, you are encouraged to interact with the developers on the [Ferrite GitHub
repository](https://github.com/Ferrite-FEM/Ferrite.jl). There is also a thorough contributor
guide which can be found in
[`CONTRIBUTING.md`](https://github.com/Ferrite-FEM/Ferrite.jl/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).
